# Costs and Investment

The HPC cluster is financed and maintained by the IT office of the University of Bern.

The base usage of our cluster is free of charge. Base usage includes:

  * 1TB of disk space (aka your home directory)
  * 20TB of temporary scratch space for raw data/results
  * Access to CPUs and GPUs for computation within limits, see
    topic [Slurm QosS](../slurm/partitions.md#qos) for the details

## Investments

Interested users can invest into GPUs, CPUs and storage usage. The investors
get elevated access to specific resources. The money raised by investments is
used to buy additional resources for the cluster/storage will be purchased with
the additional budget.

!!! tip "Get in touch with us!"
    If you are interested in any of the below investment opportunities, get in
    touch with us by starting a service request at the [Service
    Portal](https://serviceportal.unibe.ch/sp).

## CPUs

For CPUs we do not have formal investment opportunities as of yet. We are
working on a business model that allows fair investment in this area. Please
get in touch with us if you are interested in getting higher/broader privileges
on CPU partitions.

## GPUs

We provide far beyond 100 GPUs to our users. In contrast to CPUs we work with
preemption on the GPU partition. For your chosen investment you gain the
privilege to preempt other user on provided number of GPUs you invested for.
That means, whenever there are no free GPUs and you start your job, other
user's jobs are terminated to have yours start almost immediately.

As the number of GPUs is limited there may be none available but will be
ordered for you as soon as possible. Nevertheless, please try to plan ahead as
much as possible as GPU availability is quite scarce and it may take months
until we can get new cards.

## Disk Storage

### Workspaces

Every **research group** has **10TB** free of charge quota. This can be used
within one or more Workspaces. The amount used per Workspace is set at
application time and can be changed later within the limitation.

Additional storage can be purchased for CHF 50 per TB and year. On the
application or modification form an quota upper limit can be set.
Accounted will be the actual usage only. Therefore, the actual usage is monitored
twice a day. The average value of all data points is used for accounting and
billed once a year

### Research Storage

If you need a storage space for research data that can be used independent from
the HPC cluster, that can be mounted using SMB protocol on your desktop, then
the research storage opportunity get you covered. Price and service details can
be found at Nevertheless, the data on such a research storage share can be
directly in our HPC cluster.

Price and service details can be found at [the official service
page](https://bit.ly/3AwciHA). Beware that the documents are in German only
currently.

!!! tip "Statement of Cost for SNSF"
    On the official service page of the research storage service you can also
    find a statement of cost for the service that you can add to your SNF
    proposal in order to budget money for storage costs in your project.

*[SMB]: Server Message Block aka Samba
*[SNSF]: Swiss National Science Foundation

